Redraft of Device Context Overview guide (#3589)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/device-context/main/index.md

---
title: Device Context Overview
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

> Enable a new device rule for your Org's authentication policy.

Author: fixed

---
**Learning outcomes**

* Send a unique device ID to the Okta servers with a custom HTTP request header.
* Understand how device context enables Adaptive Multifactor Authentication (AMFA).

**What you need**

* <StackSnippet snippet="whatyouneedsdk" />
* <StackSnippet snippet="whatyouneedorg" />

**Sample code**

* <StackSnippet snippet="samplecode" />

---

## Overview

Server-side web applications can use the `X-Device-Token` custom HTTP request header to send a user's device ID to an Okta org. The ID:

* Is 32 characters or less.
* Identifies the specific user device.
* Is unique across all devices.

> For server-side apps using an embedded SDK, developers must create the ID and attach it to the `X-Device-Token` header. The ID informs two features within an Org that flag "a request is coming to the Org from a new device":

Reviewer: Change "attach" to "assign"

Author: fixed

* [Device Context](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/guides/devices/devcontext-main.htm)
* [Behavior Detection](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/Security/behavior-detection/about-behavior-detection.htm)

Administrators can write authentication policy rules for sign-in requests from a new device using the **new device behavior**. The following diagram shows this flow:

<div class="full">

![Flow diagram showing how the new device behavior works](/img/advanced-use-cases/device-context-new-behavior-flow.png)

</div>

> **Note:** Find your Org's definition of **New Device** in your Admin Console under **Security** > **Behavior Detection**.

## Update your application to send an X-Device-Token header

<StackSnippet snippet="integrationsteps" />

> ## An Example: Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication example
```

Author: fixed

> An Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication (AMFA) policy means that users are prompted for a different number of authentication factors based on a number of criteria, including:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with an Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication (AMFA) policy are prompted for a different number of authentication factors based on a number of criteria, including:

```

Author: Changed to "Apps with an Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication (AMFA) policy prompt users for..."  to remove the passive verb.

</div>

Follow these steps to enable this AMFA policy in your app:

1. Update your application to send the `X-Device-Token` header to your Org.
2. Update or create a new global session policy to require a second authentication factor for sign-in requests from new devices.
3. Update or create an authentication policy for your app to require and identify a second authentication factor for new devices.

> **Note**: For testing purposes, we suggest creating new policies rather than adding AMFA rules to your existing policies.

### Create a new global session policy for AMFA

1. Open the **Admin Console** for your org.
2. Choose **Security** > **Global Session Policy** to show the available global session policies.
3. Click **Add Policy**.
4. Set a **Policy Name**; for example, "New Device AMFA Policy".
5. Set **Assign to Groups** to your target user groups; for example, "Test Users".
6. Click **Create Policy and Add Rule** to save the new policy.

After creating the policy, the **Add Rule** dialog appears.

1. Set a **Rule Name**; for example, "New Device AMFA Rule".

> 2. Set **Behavior is** to **New Device**. This is where the `X-Device-Token` header is checked.

Reviewer: I don't see the "Behavior is" field in my org. Probably because I don't have the feature enabled but just wanted to let you know so you can confirm.

Author: Here it is in my org

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97525701/189139899-6d5abce9-33d3-4dfe-a7e9-24a4b174e779.png)

3. Set **Establish the user session with** to **A password**.

> 4. Set **Multifactor authentication (MFA) is** to **Required**.

Reviewer: Out of curiosity, what does setting MFA to "Required" do? MFA is already enforced through the other policies, right?

Author: We've discussed this separately. Have added a link to help.Okta for more info on the MFA settings here

5. Set **Establish the user session with** to **A password**.
6. Verify that **Users will be prompted for MFA** is set to **At every sign-in**.
7. Click **Create Rule** to create the rule.

These rules declare that:

* Every user starts the sign-in process with a password

> * If "New Device" is true, a second authentication factor is required, and users will be prompted as such for each sign-in process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If "New Device" is true, a second authentication factor is required, and users are prompted as such for each sign-in process.
```

Author: fixed

> **Note**: See [Add a global session policy rule](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/policies/add-okta-sign-on-policy-rule.htm) to learn how the different MFA settings interact.

### Create a new app authentication policy for AMFA

Create a new authentication policy for your app that contains two rules that state:

> 1. By default, users authenticate with a username and password only.

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure this list should be unordered. Users aren't required to do these steps in order.
```suggestion
- By default, users authenticate with a username and password only.
```

Author: @brentschaus-okta I'm not changing this to an unordered list. It's a numbered list to identify the two rules per se and not an order to them. They aren't steps - just what the rules are.

> 2. If the user is using a new device, require a second authentication factor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the user is using a new device, require a second authentication factor.
```

Author: Same comment as above.

First, create the policy.

1. Open the **Admin Console** for your org.
2. Choose **Security** > **Authentication Policies** to show the available authentication policies.
3. Click **Add a Policy**.
4. Set a **Policy Name**; for example, "AMFA Test Policy".
5. Click **Save**.

Set the catch-all rule to require username and password only by default.

1. Locate the **Catch-all Rule** for the new policy and select **Actions** > **Edit**.
2. Verify **Access is** is set to **Allowed after successful authentication**.
3. Set **User must authenticate with** to **Password**.
4. Click **Save**.

Add a new rule that requires an additional authenticator when signing in from a new device.

1. Click **Add rule** on the **Rules** tab for your new policy.
2. Set a **Rule Name**; for example, "Second factor for new device."
3. Set **The following custom expression is true** to `security.behaviors.contains("New Device")`.
4. Verify that **User must authenticate with** is set to **Password + Another factor**.

> 5. Verify that the box under **Additional factor types** contains at least one additional factor type; for example, email or Okta Verify).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Verify that the box under **Additional factor types** contains at least one additional factor type; for example, email or Okta Verify.
```

Author: fixed
